chaduke

high

# Comptroller.updateTotalStaked() is called in the wrong time, as a result, gInflationIndex is calculated wrongly, so is the amount of rewards each user deserves.

## Summary
``Comptroller.updateTotalStaked()`` is called in the wrong time, as a result, ``gInflationIndex`` is calculated wrongly, so is the amount of rewards each user deserves. The main issue is that whenever the effective ``totalStaked`` needs to be  changed,  ``Comptroller.updateTotalStaked()`` should be called first before the efffective ``totalStaked`` gets updated. Otherwise, we are using the new effective ``totalStaked`` to calculate ``gInflationIndex``. 

## Vulnerability Detail
We analyze how ``Comptroller.updateTotalStaked()`` is called in the wrong time, as a result, ``gInflationIndex`` is calculated wrongly below.

1) we notice that there are only two places that ``gInflationIndex`` will be updated:, ``updateTotalStaked()`` and ``withdrawRewards()``:

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/token/Comptroller.sol#L264-L274](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/token/Comptroller.sol#L264-L274)

2) we need to make sure we calculate ``gInflationIndex`` correctly, it is important that whenever the effective ``totalStakedAmount`` is changed, we need to update ``gInflationIndex`` FIRST before the effective ``totalStakedAmount`` can be modified. The effective ``totalStakedAmount`` is calculated by the following function:

```javascript
 function globalTotalStaked() external view returns (uint256 globalTotal) {
        globalTotal = totalStaked - totalFrozen;
        if (globalTotal < 1e18) {
            globalTotal = 1e18;
        }
    }
```
3) This means, whenever one of the state variables, ``totalStaked`` or ``totalFrozen`` need to be changed, we need to calculate and update ``gInflationIndex``  FIRST before ``totalStaked`` or ``totalFrozen``  is updated. 

4) The following function updates ``totalFrozen`` first (L796 and L798) and then call ``updateTotalStaked()`` (L811), as a result, the change of ``totalFrozen`` take effects on the value of ``gInflationIndex`` IMMEDIATELY and RETROACTIVELY, which should not be the case. 

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/user/UserManager.sol#L750-L804](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/user/UserManager.sol#L750-L804)

5) The following function updates ``totalFrozen`` but does NOT update  ``gInflationIndex`` at all itself. The function is called by ``_getUserInfo()``, which is also called by ``withdrawRewards()``. Nevertheless, ``gInflationIndex`` is calculated (L241) in ``withdrawRewards()`` AFTER the update of ``totalFrozen`` below (L989):

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/user/UserManager.sol#L969-L993](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/user/UserManager.sol#L969-L993)

6) Then, the following function updates ``totalFrozen``  FIRST (L1038) before calling updateTotalStaked() to update ``gInflationIndex`` (L1040):

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/user/UserManager.sol#L1021-L1041](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-union/blob/main/union-v2-contracts/contracts/user/UserManager.sol#L1021-L1041)

7) In summary, there are three places in which ``totalFrozen``  is updated first before calling ``updateTotalStaked()`` to update ``gInflationIndex``. As a result,  ``gInflationIndex`` is not calculated correctly, so is the reward amount for each user. 

## Impact
The bugs will affect the correct calculation of ``gInflationIndex`` and thus the reward amount for each user. In one case, users might get less rewards and they will not be happy. In another case, some users might get more rewards then they deserve, and the pool is losing funds. Neither one is a good result. 

## Code Snippet
See above.

## Tool used

Remix
Manual Review

## Recommendation
1) Always call ``updateTotalStaked()`` whenever ``totalStaked`` or ``totalFrozen`` is changed;
2) Always call ``updateTotalStaked()`` first to update ``gInflationIndex`` before the updates of ``totalStaked`` or ``totalFrozen`` . 